IMPORTER
Importer
%%mtime

%!target : man
%!encoding : utf-8
%!postproc(man): "^(\.TH.*) 1 "  "\1 8 "

= NAME =

Importer - A Python module for remote procedure calls over HTTP

= DESCRIPTION =

The Importer provides a way to call a remote procedure and retrieve its results
in a native format.


= Exporter side =

The exporter is the webengine website part which performs the request and
returns the result. This result is automatically returned serialized using
(C)Pickle. The webengine may also handle SOAP, JSON, etc.


== Example ==

Here is an example of an **get_listing** function from a fictive
**webengine-ls** plugin:

```
from webengine.utils.decorators import exportable
import os

@exportable
def get_listing(request, path, useless_param):
    return {'path': path, 'files': os.listdir(path)}
```

The **@exportable** decorator is mandatory as it allows to get the function
accessible in the webservice.


= Importer side =

The importer allows you to call exported functions and get the results in python
objects.

A few optional parameters are available to customize the access:

**distant_url**: by default, the request is made locally. You can use this
parameter to specifiy a remote url.

**ssl_cert**: path to the SSL certificate.

**ssl_key**: path to the SSL Key.

**timeout**: Socket timeout is set to 30 per default. You can change it using
this option.


There is 3 available methods:

**call()**: to simply call the the method with the given arguments

**get()**: to retrieve an attribut from the given module

**set()**: to set an attribut in the given module


== Example ==

```
from importer import Importer

imp = Importer()

# the trailing / is significant
imp['distant_url'] = 'https://host/exporter/'

# add this if needed
imp['ssl_cert] = '/path/to/cert'
imp['ssl_key'] = '/path/to/key'

# get_listing() method takes the path and a useless parameter. The following
# code will perform a POST request at /exporter/ls/services/get_listing on the
# specified host:
res = imp.call('ls.services', 'get_listing', path='/home', useless_param=28)
```

**res** now contains the **dict** returned by the **get_listing** function (see
above).

== Binary ==

The 'importer' package comes with a binary also named 'importer' that can be used to run a call a distant function and pretty print the result.

Usage: HOST|URL MODULE FUNC [params],...

Parameters types can be give by using **int:** or **bool:** before the parameter value (eg: bool:true).
